Add geo-centroid and weighted average aggregations documentation (#7613)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _aggregations/metric/weighted-avg.md

---
layout: default
title: Weighted average
parent: Metric aggregations
grand_parent: Aggregations
nav_order: 150
---

# Weighted average

> The `weighted_avg` aggregation calculates the weighted average of numeric values across documents. This is useful when you want to calculate an average, but weight some data points more heavily than others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `weighted_avg` aggregation calculates the weighted average of numeric values across documents. This is useful when you want to calculate an average but weight some data points more heavily than others.
```

## Weighted average calculation

The weighted average is calculated as `(sum of value * weight) / (sum of weights)`.

## Parameters

> When using the `weighted_avg` aggregation you must define the following parameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using the `weighted_avg` aggregation, you must define the following parameters:
```

> - `value`: The field or script to get the numeric values to average

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `value`: The field or script used to obtain the average numeric values
```

> - `value`: The field or script to get the numeric values to average

Reviewer: I made some assumptions here re: meaning. Please confirm that my changes reflect the intended meaning.

> - `weight`: The field or script to get the weight for each value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `weight`: The field or script used to obtain the weight for each value
```

Optionally, you can specify the following parameters:

- `format`: A numeric format to apply to the output value

> - `value_type`: A type hint for the values if using scripts or unmapped fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `value_type`: A type hint for the values when using scripts or unmapped fields
```

> For the value or weight, you can specify:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the value or weight, you can specify the following parameters:
```

- `field`: The document field to use
- `missing`: A value or weight to use if the field is missing

> ## Using the aggregation

Author: **Technical reviewer: Please confirm this example is relevant to an OpenSearch user. I tested the example using Dev Tools. If another example is more appropriate, please replace the draft example with your example. Thank you.**

Reviewer 2: LGTM

Follow these steps to use the `weighted_avg` aggregation:

> **1. Create an index and then index some documents**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**1. Create an index and index some documents**
```

```json
PUT /products

POST /products/_doc/1
{
  "name": "Product A",
  "rating": 4,
  "num_reviews": 100
}

POST /products/_doc/2
{
  "name": "Product B",
  "rating": 5,
  "num_reviews": 20
}

POST /products/_doc/3
{
  "name": "Product C",
  "rating": 3,
  "num_reviews": 50
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

**2. Run the `weighted_avg` aggregation**

```json
GET /products/_search
{
  "size": 0,
  "aggs": {
    "weighted_rating": {
      "weighted_avg": {
        "value": {
          "field": "rating"
        },
        "weight": {
          "field": "num_reviews"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

## Handling missing values

> The `missing` parameter allows you to specify default values for documents that are missing the `value` field or the `weight` field instead of excluding them from the calculation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `missing` parameter allows you to specify default values for documents missing the `value` field or the `weight` field instead of excluding them from the calculation.
```

> Here's an example of this behavior. First, create an index and add sample documents. This example has five documents with different combinations of missing values for the `rating` and `num_reviews` fields. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following is an example of this behavior. First, create an index and add sample documents. This example includes five documents with different combinations of missing values for the `rating` and `num_reviews` fields: 
```
